This is a single view iOS app which provides an interactive illustration of the behavior and function of novel data structure I created. It is inspired by the splay tree but uses weights and decay to simulate an organic growth and decay behavior for optimizing real life querying patterns, such as a Pareto distribution. Each node in the tree is assigned a float weight value which is incremented at each node access according to a predefined growth factor. Each node also stores a "timestamp" which is the total number of queries at the last node access. This value couldd also be an actual time-stamp, but for illustrative purposes on such a small scale, it made sense to do it this way. Upon a successful access, after incrementing the node's weight (feeding), the node's weight is compared to its parent's weight and a tree rotation is performed if the child has surpassed the parent in weight. Each time a node is accessed, a decay is applied to the weight as well, which is exponential rather than linear.

This behavior allows for frequently accessed nodes to accumulate near the root of the tree, while avoiding expensive and potentially superfluous or counter-productive tree rotations perforrmed by a splay tree. The animation uses blue (light) and red (heavy) coloring to show the current relative weight of each node. The app allows the user to perform simulated 80/20 Pareto distributed queries on the tree as well is repeated individual queries to show the behavior of the tree. You can also click on any node in the tree for detailed information on the node or pan/zoom around the tree. The app employs SpriteKit to provide highly optimized graphics rendering and a potentially large number of nodes while maintaining high performance and low memory burden.
